 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 May 19, 2023  
Sc - 17497  
 
 
Dear Sir/Madam , 
 
Ref: ISIN:  INE155A01022 – Ordinary Shares  
        IN9155A01020 – ‘A’ Ordinary Shares  
        Debt Securities on NSE & BSE  
  
Sub: Transcript of  Q4 FY2023 and FY 2023  Earnings Discussion /Conference call  
  
With further reference to our letter sc no. 17357  dated April 29, 2023 , intimating that post 
announcement of Financial Results for the quarter and financial year ended March 31, 2023, the 
Company will host  an Earnings Discussion on Friday, May 12 , 2023.  
 
The trans cript of the earnings/conference call  is available on the website of the Company at 
www.tatamotors.com   
 
This is for your information and records.  
 
Yours faithfully,  
Tata Motors Limited  
 
 
 
Maloy Kumar Gupta  
Company Se cretary  
 
Encl: a/a  
 
  
BSE Limited    
First Floor, New Trading Ring  
Rotunda Building, P J Towers,  
Dalal Street, Fort, Mumbai 400 001  
  
National Stock E xchange of India Ltd.  
Listing Compliance Department  
Exchange Plaza, Bandra Kurla Complex, 
Bandra(E), Mumbai 400 051  
 
                                                                                                          Tata Motors Limited  
May 12 , 2023  
 
 
 
MANAGEMENT : MR. PB BALAJI  – GROUP  CFO, TATA  MOTORS  LIMITED  
MR. ADRIAN  MARDELL  – INTERIM  CEO, JAGUAR  LAND  ROVER  
MR. GIRISH  WAGH  – EXECUTIVE  DIRECTOR,  TATA  MOTORS  
LIMITED  
MR. SHAILESH  CHANDRA  – MD  TMPVL  AND  TPEML  
MR.  RICHARD  MOLYNEUX  – ACTING  CFO,  JAGUAR  LAND  
ROVER  
Sneha Gavankar:   
Good day and welcome to Tata Motors Q 4 and full year  FY23 results c all. I am joined today by Mr. P B 
Balaji, Group CFO, Tata Motors; Mr. Girish Wagh, Executive Director, Tata Motors; Mr. Shailesh Chandra, 
MD, Tata Motors Passenger Vehicles Limited and Tata Passenger Electric Mobility Limited; Mr. Adrian 
Mardell, Interim CEO, Jaguar Land Rover; Mr. Richard Molyneux, Acting CFO, Jaguar Land Rover, and my 
colleagues from the Investor Relations team.  
Today we plan to walk you through the results  presentation followed by Q&A. As a reminder, all 
participant lines will be in listen only mode and we will be taking questions via the teams platform, which 
is alrea dy open for you to submit your questions. You are requested to mention your name and the name 
of your organization while submitting the questions. Now I will request  Balaji to kindly take  us through  
the presentation.  
PB Balaji:  
Thank you. Firstly, w elcome  all of  you for the Q4 FY23 analyst  call, and our intention is to quickly run you 
through the numbers and any color  that we may  want to give, and  then  spend as much time  as possible  
on the Q &A as normal . A standard Safe harbor statement, nothing  delta  to re port this time. Go to the next 
slide please.  
A pretty action -packed quarter both here as well as in JLR. And we  were  there at Auto Expo, which we 
gave a bit of color on last results call. And on top of that we also had the launch of the Tiago EV and 
Shailesh, I'm sure he is going to talk about that . We fi nished the fi rst 10,000 sales of Tiago EV already. And 
we also com pleted the purchase  of Ford Sanand facilit y, that has been done . And the final tranche of Rs. 
3,750 crores  has also been received from the TPG Rise. And overall,  on the e -mobility space as well  as the 
zero -emission mobility space a lot of work happening , and portfolio continued to  increase.Next slide.  
That's in India, in to JLR, again an equally action packed quarter, where starting  point is announcement of 
the blockbuster , the  Range Rover BEV, launching next year for which booking start from October this y ear. 
And also we  started talking about the Jaguar BEV launches as well,  which I am sure  Adrian and Richard                                                                                                          Tata Motors Limited  
May 12 , 2023  
 
 
will talk about. We also talked about a long -term investment plan under our  Reimagine , for a GBP 15 
billion investment over the next fi ve years , and the whole  electrifi cation roadmap continues to accelerate. 
At the same time a very fundamental call on  the House of Brands, where we will amplify the individual 
brands that's Range Rover,  Defender, Discovery, and Jaguar in a big way, while continuing to be  almost 
equivalent of  an Intel inside as far as the Land Rover is concerned , and its features, I'm sure there will  be 
a lot of questions on that, which we can pick up both today as well as in the Investor  Day coming up.  Next 
slide.  
Fair to say it  has been an extremely satisfying quarter. And the reason I say, use  that word is that, nice to 
see all the auto verticals coming together once again and this time  with a lot of intensity as well. So both 
the alignment of the vectors are there and the magnitude  of vectors are also increasing, which is what has 
translated into a strong set of numbers  for the quarters, resulting on multiple highs  and I will quickly  cover 
that in the coming slides . We en ded the year on a pretty strong note with revenue of  around  Rs. 1 lakh 
crores  with an EBITDA of 13.3% , and the profit before tax and exceptional item of Rs. 5,000  crores.  
On a full -year basis, we hit our highest ever revenue at  around  Rs. 3.5 lakh crores and ended the year  with 
a positive free cash flow  of Rs. 7,800 crores, despite a very weak start in Q1 and  Q2, which you see in the 
numbers . The business has been sequentially improving its performance  and doing it in significant 
stretches. So, very happy with the way we have ended . Next slide please.  
Source of growt h, in the quarter we grew by about 35% , of which  volume  and mix contributed 24% of the 
35% and the price came in at 10.5%, so price is still  a very strong variable in our growth agenda. 
Profitability 3.2% went to 6.8% and all businesses  contributing to it and JLR coming at a very large swing 
there, contributing to the  2.8% out of that delta there. Again debt continues to reduce at Rs. 43,700 crores 
and TML India at Rs. 6,200 crores, JLR GBP  3 billion i.e. Rs. 30,000 crores we talk about. So  the FY 24 net 
debt reduction plan, we are confirming, we will not be in a position to  meet the FY 24 numbers, but very 
clearly  - FY25 we want this issue sorted out.  Next slide.  
A series of headlines, normally we don't do that, but it's fair to just pull back  and reflect  on what this 
quarter and the year actually means for the Group . For us , each one of us in this call, we feel strongly 
about this, the highest -ever revenue in a  quarter, the highest -ever EBITDA in a quarter, one of the 
strongest PBTs that we  delivered and all three auto vertical simultaneously profitable, strong net debt 
reduction.  That's all the quarter numbers. And if you factor in  that the first half was a very weak first half,  
we still delivered the highest -ever revenue. We have the highest EBITDA since  2015, very  strong PBT 
despite the weak start , after factoring the weak start. And India net debt  lowest in the last 15 years, so 
it's worthwhile just to  mull over  it to say, I would say, that the  potential of this business is slowly starting 
to come out and that's what we would want to  build on when we go into FY 24. This is basically giving us 
the impetus to how we want to  play at FY 24. Next slide.  
This is also something which we are happy about, a dividend of Rs. 2 per share for  the ordinary 
shareholder s and Rs. 2.1 for the DVR shareholders, coming in after sometime. And this will obviously have 
to be a - the Board has recommended this and this will have to be approved  in the ensuing shareholders 
meeting. And this will result in a cash flow of  Rs. 771 crores as part of the plan i.e. this  is factored into the 
debt reduction plan in any case.  So again, very happy to see this. This has been a key demand for the retail                                                                                                         Tata Motors Limited  
May 12 , 2023  
 
 
shareholders and  I always maintained a turnaround is not complete unless we pay divid ends and nice to 
see this number coming through as well.  Next slide .  
With this, I think let me hand it over to Richard who will walk you through the numbers  and between him 
and Adrian, they  will cover the JLR section. Richard, over to you.  
Richard Molyneu x: 
Great. So, Balaji has already explained some of the positive future announcements for  JLR, so I get the 
chance to go thro ugh some positive historical fi nancials as well. So if we  go to the next chart left hand side 
of this is last year by quarter. So if  you look through retail  sales, very glad to see us back over 100,000 
units of retail sales for the quarter,  that's up 20% versus Q3, and up 30% year -on-year.  
If you look through all of the fi nancial metrics on this chart, through revenue, EBIT down to free cash fl ow. 
Note that each and every metric improves in each and every quarter. So we have  demonstrated strong 
consistent growth through the year. In Q4, our rev enue GBP7.1billion, that is our highest rev enue that we 
have seen since FY 19. EBITDA of 14. 6%, 6.5% EBIT, strong PBT and GBP850 million worth of cash in the 
quarter. In fact, if you look at  the second half of the year, we generated GBP1.3 billion worth of cash, that 
also is the strongest  H2 cash performan ce for seven years, so since FY 16. A strong performance in Q4. If 
you look at the full year, although there is some movement  back in retails, that is the  natural eff ect of 
dealers destocking when we had tight  supply and restocking now that supply is coming back on stream. 
Revenue was  GBP23 billi on, we produced 2.4% EBIT of the year, PBT was negative 64, but if you look 
through  that, just like the old added game of two halves, o ur PBT in the fi rst half of the year  was minus 
GBP  697 million, in the second half of the year it was positive G BP 633 million. Free cash fl ow for the year 
GBP  521 million, also the best full -year cash fl ow since  FY16. And we ended the year with GBP  3.8 billion 
worth of cash, GBP  5.3 billion worth of  liquidity, and GBP  3 billion worth of net debt. So we have had, like 
I say,  a strong consistent  year. We do exit the year performing well. We also have an order bank, which 
currently  stands at 200,000 units to assist us as we go to the start of this year.  Okay, next chart.  
 I won't read through this, this is a written version of most of the  comments that I've made, feel free to 
read it at your leisure afterward s, so if we go  again. So , this is our wholesale performance. So wholesales 
for the quarter, 95,000 units,  19% up on the previous quarter and that's been driven by a much more 
stable and expanding  production system. So our production actually increased from 83,000  units in  Q3 to 
98,000 units in Q4. So that's also up 18%. And that's what ’s allowed us to increase our  whole sales and 
meet our customer demand in the period.  
The balance of our wholesales remains reasonably consistent, circa 50% of them are  Range Rover, Range 
Rover Sport, Evoque, et c. Defender is another 25%, so  75% -76% between those two brands. Full -year 
basis the analysis is the same, 50%  Range Rover, 25% Defender. You’ll note w e're still selling 43,000 
Jaguars, we are still making sure that  those cars stay  current. We ’ve invested in technology on the F -PACE. 
We’ve invested  in special additions to mark the 75th an’iversary of Jaguar as a sports car manufacturer . 
So we still are investing in those brands as well. Full -year, 321,000  wholesales.  Next chart.  
So, if you look at this on a regional basis, you'll see reasonably strong through each  region in the quarter, 
the one exception I'll call out and explain is North America, that’s  not an issue of fundamental demand,                                                                                                         Tata Motors Limited  
May 12 , 2023  
 
 
that's just our allocation timing. So although it looks  like a reduction there, when you look at retails in 
North America quart er-on-quarter, it  was 23,600 in Q3 22,300 in Q4, so hardly changed. And our customer 
order bank in North  America is flat quarter -on-quarter. So that isn't a fundamental change in the demand  
signal from North America, it's just our timing of allocations. Al l other regions strong , including China, 
progressed in Q4 as well.  Full year, very similar picture, I won't go through that. Worth saying on the right -
hand side that  the proportion of our electrified vehicle is increasing. If you look at the BEV and the  PHEV 
section at the bottom from 11% to 17%, that's the result of our , I'd say, increasingly compelling  PHEV 
offers. So we have increased both the range and the performance of several  of the PHEVs in the range 
and that is starting to show through in the marke t, along with  the removal of some supply constraints that 
have impacted that. So we have had significant  increase in the share of PHEV from vehicles in our 
wholesales.  Next chart.  
Okay, so in terms of the financial walk , this takes PBT from the same quart er last  year, where it was GBP9 
million to this quarter GBP 368  million. The biggest variable  is volume and mix. And you can see there, 
probably worth mentioning that mix is  a higher effect than volume. And this comes back to some of the 
issues around qual ity of  sales, that we've been pushing during the past few months and we'll continue to 
push. So , that mix is driven by Range Rover and Range Rover Sport, but it is also driven by trim mix  within 
our ranges and making sure that we are continuing to allocate  those chips and  components that  we have 
to the vehicles which are most favourable  for them.  So, volume  and mix very favourable . If you look at 
pricing and material cost together, this is the picture  that I expect ed to happen and I told you would 
happen when we sat down  last quarter . So we ’ve moved to a position where our output inflation in terms 
of our pricing is now  higher than our input inflation. That wasn’t  the case last quarter. Last quarter pricing 
with  GBP16 5 million favorable , material cost was GBP230 million adverse . So we've flipped that through  
the quarter and we intend for that to continue.  
Going through to SG&A, another  care point there for us, SG&A is increasing, that is partly  marketing, as 
we start t o move to a scenario where we do want to trigger some more  demand at the back end of this 
coming year. And also partly the investments in our transformation , particularly in terms of our digital 
transformation as a company. Operational  FX did exactly what you would expect it to do, on a quarter -
by-quarter basis, Sterling has weakened, that helps us from a transactional basis but does give us a hit in 
terms  of realized FX and unrealized commodities. The weakening of sterling versus the dollar  gave us a 
favou rable  revaluation on our dollar -denominated loans which you can also expect . So, fundamentally the 
move in PBT quarter -to-quarter is volume to mix -- volume and  mix and we've managed to offset input 
inflation and output inflation.  
Next chart. So this looks  then at  the move of that PBT through to cash, and look key here is  in the middle 
section of here, cash profit after tax and investment is favourable  GBP400million in the quarter. Working 
capital continues to move in our favour,  that is partly natural as  our business expands, our payables 
expand faster than our receivables. But also partly from some deliberate measures and initiatives that we 
put in place, using fairly advanced digital  techniques, for example, to reduce our component inventory 
during the period. So that is  partly natural and partly from some deliberate efforts on our side, generated 
theGBP815 million worth of free cash flow that we reported.  And next chart.                                                                                                          Tata Motors Limited  
May 12 , 2023  
 
 
In terms o f investment, so total investment for the year was just under  GBP2.4 billion, that is an increase. 
The biggest part of that increase is in engineering, which  rose from GBP1.3 billion to GBP1.7 billion. That's 
a natural part of our product cycle. And  you kn ow that we have a large series of launches coming between 
the end of next year  and 2026. Those are at the high point of the engineering at the moment. So that's 
what’s driving  that expense up a bit.  What you also see is that  as those programs go through th eir various 
gateways and start to move  to production. They get more capitalized, so our capitalization ratio is slowly 
increasing , it was 53% in the quarter versus 48% last quarter and for the full year it was  45% versus , sorry 
43% versus 35% last year. We  would expect that capitalization to continue  to increase probably to around 
the 60% range.  We've also said, Balaji repeated this earlier on,  that this investment number will increase.  
We are expecting it to be around GBP3 billion a year for the next five  years , as we continue to  invest in 
both our electrified vehicles, electrified powertrains themselves and the electrical  systems that support 
them.  Okay. Next chart.  
 
 Right Now move on to a business update. If we move forward, but this  chart which shows our average 
revenue per unit is really important  and part of the demonstration  of our journey towards modern luxury. 
So we've managed to increase our average  revenue consistently over the last five years in FY'23 it moved 
up fromGBP62,000 to GBP71,000 so up by  about 15%. Part of that is the increased production  of Range 
Rover / Range Rover Sport. But even within the vehicle lines, we have continued to increase  our focus on 
the high er-level trends. Including, for example, SV, so the Range Rover  SV which was  only launched 
October 21, already got 6,100 orders at an average transaction  price of GBP180,000. We've even been 
testing the water  north  of that, we did a special  edition Landsdown edition of the Range Rover SV, which 
transacted at around  GBP250,000. So there is room for us to operate in this space, if we continue with 
diligence , our modern luxury journey.  Next page.  
In terms of semiconductors, I think people have people have mentioned this a lot . My summary I think is 
probably three things. We are seein g fewer issues now, they’ve not completely disappeared, but we are 
seeing fewer of them. Our ability to see them in advance  is improving due to our relationships with the 
chip manufacturers and with our suppliers . And when we do spot them, the number of to ols at our 
disposals to solve those  problems is increasing. So they are proving less of a , I'm going to say nuisance, 
that’s  probably an understatement than they were last year and they could still come back to  bite us, but 
it is considerably improving.  Next chart.  
Okay, key for us is to make sure that we are progressively and in a stable manner, bringing  our supply up 
to continue to build our order bank down, just to meet our customers' expectations with the arrival of 
their vehicles that they wanted. We are showing  good progress in terms of getting Range Rover and Range 
Rover Sport through our  facility in Solihull, went up 2,600 units per week during Q4, and we expect that 
rise to continue  progressively as we go through next year, pushing north of 3,000 u nits per week  during 
the year.  Next chart.  
Inflation is still an issue for us. We do have considerable headwinds, we’ve shown  them here at GBP850 
million for the year, of which about 40% are commodity prices  and about a third were semiconductors, 
the rest  is energy and labour  cost both with us  and with our supply base. So we knew these were  coming                                                                                                         Tata Motors Limited  
May 12 , 2023  
 
 
and we spent a large portion of last  year, doubling down on our Refocus savings  and can proudly say, that 
we've offset that  and more than offset that in terms of  our Refocus savings during the year. A lot of that  
was very detailed work in terms of making sure that we allocated those chips that we had  to the vehicles 
that we wanted to sell. But there was also considerable work done on the  cost side, on the investme nt 
side, and on the inventory side. So in total, we delivered  GBP 1.1 billion in savings through the Refocus 
programs and that did offset the inbound inflation  that we saw during the year.  Next chart.  
So China, so we  are really proud of the results of our China business , it’s best financial results  for five 
years. And if you look at the left -hand side, segments of the market that we’re  operating in are relatively 
stable. Our share of those segments is also relatively st able . So look, we know that market is really fast 
moving, really dynamic in the sections that  we're operating in, we are maintaining our share. If you look 
at the financials on the right -hand side, it looks a little bit as if imports average revenue per un it isn't 
increasing as much  as the global, that's a little bit of a misconception there is some profit from our P&A  
operation, our or after -sales operation.  If you look purely at vehicle average sales per unit, for imported 
volume it is up 8% year -over -year. From a profitability standpoint, we were PBT positive in the quarter of 
13%  EBITDA, 2% EBIT. On a full -year basis we were also PBT positive and EBIT and EBITDA  were both 5% 
higher than FY 22. So very good consistent progress within our China  business , best financial year for five 
years.  Next chart.  
Right, the fun pictures. We're continuing to develop our product range. If you look  at the '24 model, year 
Velar  on the right -hand side, that is –that’s as close to a flawless execution  of our modernist  design  
language that you're going to get. It's just beautiful . We have made some tweaks to the exterior. We've 
made some technology upgrades , for example, the PHEV now has a 20% higher range than it did 
before hand  it goes  40 miles WLTP without charge. And on the interior look, there are also some upgrades . 
So that vehicle is upgraded.  And, on the right is the Range Rover Sport SV, you will want one, they are 
going to be phenomenal . And as I’ve  mentioned before and we're ex tremely proud of the success of our  
Range Rover SV, and we've received 6,100 orders for that. We haven't even announced  or started taking 
orders for this one yet.  Next chart.  
So looking ahead, we are optimistic, so we exited FY'23 in a much stronger positi on than we started it. So 
we're on the right trajectory, and we have had strong and consistent  progress. So we think FY'24 is going 
to be a good year for us. In reality, the first half  may be a little bit slower, so I expect the second half of 
the year to be stronger than the  first half. But we do have the momentum that we're looking for and we 
will have a good  year. Our priorities is to continue to build our supply availability, our robustness, the 
accuracy  with which we give our suppliers our forecasts. W e'll continue to focus on brand activation , there 
is a lead -time with that, we have to start doing some of that now, to activate  orders towards the back end 
of the year. We're going to execute our plans. And from  a financial perspective, we're saying we're  going 
to deliver 6% plus EBIT. GBP2 billion free  cash flow after investment, which means our net debt will reduce 
from GBP3 billion at the  end of the financial year just finished, to circa GBP1  billion , 12 months from now.  
That's it from my side. I'm sure  we'll take some questions afterward s, but thanks very much for  the 
meantime.  
                                                                                                         Tata Motors Limited  
May 12 , 2023  
 
 
PB Balaji  
Thank you. Thanks, Richard. So quickly moving on to commercial vehicles, next slide please . 
 The registration market shares after the correction to the approach to a d emand -pull strategy is now 
starting to recover. Our Q4 better than Q3, barring one which is the  – what used to be called intermediate 
and light commercial vehicles, MGV ’s is where we still  need to get some further impetus on that. Very 
much part of the pla n that Girish and team  are working towards. But everywhere everything else starting 
to sequentially start improving . Next slide.  
On overall volumes, the call -out here is the powertrain mix that you see, with  the CNG prices now coming 
under policy, and therefore expecting some stabilization in terms  of the delta between that  and diesel, 
one would expect to see the CV numbers , sorry CNG numbers starting to change as well.  Next slide.  
Overall revenues, happy that w e ended the quarter with a double -digit  EBITDA, something that we said 
we want to get to as soon as possible. And the business ended  the year pretty strong with revenue of 
around Rs. 21,000 crores and an EBITDA of 10.1% , and clearly, with market share star ting to inch -up as 
well as profitability starting to improve , the business is in the right track. Further distance to go, but very 
much on track.  Next slide.  
The source of money that you  are seeing, where the profitability came from  - volume , mix, realizat ions, 
savings, all coming through quite nicely. And we intend to keep it this  way as we go forward. So the other 
big one is the consumer -facing metrics, which is a  very, very important on a demand -pull strategy to 
ensure that the brand is in a strong wicke t, very happy with the way things are starting to move. The brand 
is – with the interventions  coming through, be it  the power – the brand power ,  the consideration  top box, 
top of mind awareness, all trending in the right direction and some very  good numbe rs even at a 
geographical level as well. And of course, the dealer satisfaction, as well as the composite satisfaction 
score doing pretty well .  
So let me give it to Girish to give an overall update on the business. Girish?  
Girish Wagh  
Yeah. Thanks, Balaji. So, I think the industry continued its growth in volumes, and one saw growth  of 22% 
over the same quarter last year. And in annual terms a growth of almost  34%. During the year we launched 
more than 40 new products and 150 variants, in addition  to what we had unveiled in the Auto Expo. As 
Balaji mentioned, we had highest annual  and quarterly revenue for FY ’23 and Q4 of FY ’23. And I think as 
we started our discount  reduction strategy from Q3, and as we continued ahead, we were able to grow 
our Vahan share, the registration share in Q4 versus Q3. With focus on continuously improving  the 
product and service competitiveness, as well as our communication to the customer . I think the non -
vehicle business which has been a significant area of f ocus grew by almost  33%. And both spares and 
service penetration has been continuously improving for last three  years now. With all this, the EBIT 
improved sequentially and is now highest in 21  quarters, with most of it coming from discount pullback, 
part of it from cost reduction and also  commodities softening, which happened in H2. While the entire 
industry grew by 22%  vs Q4 FY22  and 34%  over the last year , I think the good part was signifi cant growth                                                                                                         Tata Motors Limited  
May 12 , 2023  
 
 
in the medium and  heavy commercial vehicles, almost 52 % over the last year. And the passenger segment , 
especially the buses, which were almost down and out during COVID, has seen a very good growth, fi nally 
in the year gone by.  
I think as Balaji showed some metrics, our continuous focus to improve the brand health through  judicious 
mix of ATL communication, Digital communication, and also lot of  influencer advocacy has actually led to 
a good improvement in net promoter score. And in fact  net promoter score has reached the highest -ever 
level now to 71 and the brand power  also grew by 170 bps. So , I think both at a very good levels. We have 
transitioned the  entire portfolio to BS6 Phase II and in line with our philosophy, once again we have gone  
beyond near compliance to the regulations. And across the range in e ach and every product , we have 
further strengthened the superiority in terms of the total cost of ownership , comfort and convenience, 
connectivity in terms of Fleet Edge, as well as the safety  features, which have been added especially in 
the trucks.  
On th e CNG, interestingly, I think with the new guideline , apart from reduction in the CNG  prices, I think 
the biggest uncertainty which was in the minds of the customers was about the diff erence in CNG prices 
with respect to diesel , and for that matter, even petrol . And this  uncertainty had led  to drop in CNG 
volumes signifi cantly. So , with this new pricing guideline , not only the CNG prices have dropped, but it is 
also getting pegged  with diesel , which  will gradually start bringing in good certainty in the mi nds of the 
customer and we will  see the CNG penetration increase. Towards this, I think we have a very strong CNG  
portfolio, both in ILCV as well as MCVs, and last year we launched our CNG vehicles and heavy  trucks, as 
also our intra portfolio. So , I think  we have CNG presence across the portfolio  now.  
Going ahead for this quarter as well as FY ’24, I think we will continue our focus on the retail  now. And 
registration shares is what will drive us, and we will continue the realization  improvement journey. As  I 
have said, I think the BS6 Phase II products have come up with a lot  of value enhancement s, features, and 
performance improvement. And there will be a lot  of efforts to communicate this not just to the 
customers, but also other stakeholders who  play a v ery important role in decision -making. And therefore 
there will be a lot of  influencer a dvocacy as well as actual in -field trials.  Getting into this year, I think we 
will now start scaling up EV supplies with the supply chain being resolved, FAME certifi cation clarity being 
there  and both on AC E-EV as well as the electric  buses, which are meant for the C ESL tender. Downstream 
business will continue to grow  being a focus area for us. And in international markets we will continue to 
play safe. We will  maintain o r grow market shares, ensure that margin and channel health is protected . 
And we will also see some of the new markets which we can enter during the  year.  Next slide.  
Coming to the electric mobility, so I think we have completed all our electri c bus deliveries meant to be 
done, to Delhi Transport Corporation and Nagpur city . In addition to that, we have already started d elivery 
of the C ESL fi rst tender with the Delhi  Transport Corporation buses. And in addition to that, also a few 
retail custome rs or orders  that we have received. We have delivered more than 300 ACE electric vehicles 
in fourth  quarter. And here on, we can sta rt ramping up signifi cantly, as I said earlier, with clarity  on supply 
chain as well as the FAME certifi cation.  
I think in A uto Expo, we made a clear statement on our future roadmap, in terms of net -zero greenhouse 
gas emissions and the de  carbonization plan with the display of 14 product  concepts. On the smart city                                                                                                         Tata Motors Limited  
May 12 , 2023  
 
 
mobility, as I said, I think the concession agreements have  been signed with Delhi Transport Corporation 
for 1,500 buses. The supply has already  been initiated, which will be followed by Bangalore, for more than 
900 buses, and then  Jammu and Kashmir for 200 buses.  I think now our e -bus fl eet has crossed more than 
7 crore or 70 million kilometers. And we have  been able to maintain more than 95% uptime in FY23. So 
we have been delivering better  than the contractual conditions. The operational revenue has also been 
ahead of our  own internal budget, doing well at around Rs. 500 crores.  
Coming to the digital businesses, so Fleet Edge continues to do very well. Now with more than  390,000 
connected trucks towards the end of FY23, and the monthly active usage is  continuously increasing and 
customers are seeing a lot of value i n terms of improvement  in vehicle uptime, asset utilization, is also 
helping them for better tracking and  optimizing the usage and driving habits, leading to improvement in 
the total cost of ownership . So, I think the clear benefits , which are being seen , as a result of which I think 
the penetration is continuously increasing. And in fact, I ’m happy to share that from April 1 , we have  also 
introduced the subscription model for the Fleet Edge. And we have seen a very good  encouraging 
response to this model.  
As I said, the engagement time has been improving consistently with the benefits being experienced by 
the fl eet owners, as well as the drivers. E -Dukaan, which is our online spare  parts marketplace, grew better 
than what we had targeted, in fact, it grew 2 .8 times, although on lower base, but doing pretty well and 
we also extended E -Dukaan for diesel  exhaust fluid as well as lubricants. So this will help us to grow these 
two business lines  also.  
I think digital lead generation has been a focus area for us a nd this has helped us, not just  to generate 
leads, but also communicate our brand message, product competitiveness  and other aspects. This has led 
to improved brand health and therefore augurs  very well for the future. So that ’s what we ’ve been doing 
in th e commercial vehicle business . 
Balaji, back to you for PV.  
 
PB Balaji  
Yeah. Thanks, Girish. Moving on to the PV numbers, PV, EV -  next slide please.  
Call out here in  PV as well, we are now going to report only Vahan registration m arket shares. We fi nd 
that to be a far more reliable and closer to the customer metric. And the powertrain mix is another  call 
out there, where you  are seeing penetration of E V’s rising to 9% and CNG sitting at 8% there.  Next slide.  
Again on the registration market shares of E V’s is growing to 84%, network now increasing  to 165 cities 
and 250 dealerships, charging infra again increasing to 5,300. Next slide.  
Overall fi nancials, we ended the quarter at 7.3% EBITDA with a PBT of Rs. 200crores. On a full -year basis 
the business wa s 6.4% EBITDA, at a PBT of Rs. 700 crores. And therefore  this business is now strongly 
profi table, in terms of EBITDA . We still got a distance  to go cover the 10%  EBITDA,  but happy to see from 
where we ’ve come to the 6.4%. At the  same time EBITDA positive,  EBIT positive, PBT positive and cash                                                                                                         Tata Motors Limited  
May 12 , 2023  
 
 
positive. One additional  data point which we ’ve pulled in this time is the EV fi nancials, where there is been  
a lot of queries that you've been asking. I also see a question, say if I need to add  EV plus PV, it doesn ’t 
add up to this one, there are some intercompany that need to be canceled  of as well, as part of 
consolidation.  On the revenues – this business is now making an EBITDA loss of about Rs. 350 odd crores . 
Out of the Rs. 350 odd crore, that ’s the 4.6% negative  that you see there. Out of  Rs. 350 crores, Rs. 300 
crores is product development costs that are being charged -off .And therefore this business is almost 
EBITDA neutral and this needs to be seen in the context  of a run -away increases in lithium prices. The  
reason I bring it out is that, we believe  the EV from a sustainable profi tability perspective is in the right 
track. This does not  include any PLI credits or anything that is being accrued. So this is underlying  
profi tability I ’m referring to . A $1 billio n business – roughly a $1 billion business with broadly neutral  
EBITDA that  is where we are, on an underlying basis.  Next slide.  
These are obvious, only thing, why is the structural fi xed cost going up there, substantial  increase in FME, 
as you see the brands building up , there  is also element of IPL  phasing that will be there, as we go ahead 
of that. Employee cost is basically investments that  are happening in the EV business and D&A expenses 
again , as the product invest ments  pickup up there. So all these are good investments that are happening 
for the  long -term viability of the business.  
Next slide. Let me give it to Shailesh.  
Shailesh Chandra  
Thank you, Balaji. So let me start with the ke y highlights of the industry fi rst. So FY23 for the  industry was 
the highest ever since the last highest ever which was in FY19 which was  3.4 million, this year ended at 
3.9 million, which was nearly 27% growth versus  FY22. SUVs continue to increase in terms of share, 
increased by 300 b ps to 43%. And  EV’s - industry saw phenomenal growth of 170% with several new 
launches and increasing acceptance  of EV among customers.  
As far as Tata Motors PV and EV business is concerned, this was our highest -ever wholesale  year, which 
was nearly 5.4 la kh volumes , with the Vahan market share of  13.5%. This is nearly  45% growth as 
compared to FY22, which was , if you just compare with  industry growth,  which  was 27%. Our EV sales 
crossed a major milestone of 50 ,000, this  includes about 2,200 volumes that we  did in international 
business. Vahan market share  was around 84%, despite increasing competition. We  have already 
mentioned that in  PV business we grew by 45% as compared to FY ’22, but it was a growth of 150% in the 
EV business for us. We were the number one SUV manufacturer in FY23 and Nexon was the number  one 
product in the SUV segment.  
Going forward, what are the bright spots, we clearly see that there are several new launches  happening 
in the SUV space, which will augur  well for the growth in this fina ncial year . CNG demand with the prices 
coming down is also expected to pick up, and several new  launches happening in the EV space and 
increasing acceptance of E V’s, I think this will also  augur well for the EV segment.  For Tata Motors, very 
happy to see t hat we transitioned to BS6 Phase II early February itself , and that has really helped us to 
ensure a very smooth transition. Several new launches , which are going to drive demand, Nexon EV Max, 
in hashtag version has been receiving  very good response. We recently launched it. This month, we  are 
also launching the  twin cylinder technology in Altroz, which is Altroz iCNG, which retains the entire boot                                                                                                         Tata Motors Limited  
May 12 , 2023  
 
 
space in the CNG, which is fi rst of its kind, very innovative concept. And of course , this year  we’ll see some 
of our products going through the mid -cycle enhancement.  
We have  few players in certain segments – we are only one player in at least one segment where  we are 
still in diesel segment. And that should also help us improve our sale s in the diesel  side. Talking about 
some of the challenges or headwinds, mainly the entry side of the  PV industry which is hatches and sedan, 
is – has been under pressure for some time. The  channel inventory, as compared to where we started the 
last fi nanc ial year in FY22, is at a higher level. Pent -up demand clearly  has gone down, barring certain new 
launches in a few  popular SUVs. And recently price increase has been taken by OEMs to basically offset 
the cost increases which have happened because of the R DE transition. So this might –we have  to watch 
the impact of this.  From Tata Motors side, the way we  are preparing ourselves is to focus on demand 
generation  through micro -market focus and actions to improve the conversion rates. We  are growing our 
portfol io both on CNG and EV, both are expected to see good growth this  year , and therefore we  should 
be the benefi ciary of that. And of course, we ’re driving margin  improvement through an institutionalized 
cost-reduction initiative, as well as what we  have as internal  nomenclature nine -box framework. So both 
on margin as well  as demand generation, we  have clear action plans laid out.  
Back to  you Balaji.  
PB Balaji  
Thank you, Shailesh. Next slide, please.  
Okay, perfect. So moving on to the overall CV+PV . Investments, we ended the year with Rs. 6,400 crores 
of investment spending , and this is likely  to increase to Rs. 8,000 crores next year, as  we step -up the whole 
electrification investments  both in CV and PV. That ’s the main trust of those delta that is coming through . 
Next slide.  
On the cash fl ows, overall the operating – the cash profit after tax and capex . I see  in the questions, some 
of the doubts lingering in terms of – as how do we treat  Capex ? Let me be clear, for us w hat we call out 
as free cash fl ows, is operating cash , less Capex , less working capital changes and any fi nance expenses 
that we incur, so it’s  the entiret y of it. So this is the  free cash fl ow after all these investments. This year 
we ended  at Rs. 3, 800 crores of free cash fl ows for t his quarter  (Q4 FY23) . And then the full year we  ended 
at Rs. 2, 400 crores of free cash fl ows after all these investments. And hearteningly , all the Capex  is funded 
by the cash profi t after tax, so it ’s extremely self -sustaining business that we have.  On a full -year basis, 
working capital in Q4 normally reverses. Full -year basis no impact at all  as working capital, so what we are 
seeing is R s. 2,400 crores is completely cash profit  after  tax, less Capex , less fi nance expenses.  Next slide.  
Tata Motors F inance, we did signal that this business, the entire restructured portfolio  we want to have a 
very, very close watch on it. And two things have happened this  quarter. One is, we have taken a hard 
look at the restructured book and taken adequate  provisions to ensure that this book now completely is 
taken care of. And we started off the concerted collection efforts and that has ensured that the GNPA is 
now starting  to sharply trend down. We did 2.6% in this quarter and the absolute numbers of  GNPA are 
also st arting to come down sharply, and we  will intend to maintain that. And the capital  adequacy remains 
comfortable even at these levels. And the business is now pivoting  squarely to quality, focusing on                                                                                                         Tata Motors Limited  
May 12 , 2023  
 
 
delivering double -digit ROE in the medium term, with a fo cus on improving NIMs, lowering the credit 
losse s, and very tight control on fixed costs . So busine ss is being run for ROA and/ or ROE  as well, as the 
case maybe.  Next slide.  
Just from a credit rating perspective, we had S&P upgrade us by a notch and domes tically , ICRA has also 
revised our outlook to positive and we will be engaging with them  after the results, for the others as well.  
Next slide.  
We do invite your for the Investor Day, both in Tata Motors and in JLR. In India it is on June  7th in Mumbai 
and in JLR i ts on Ju ne 12th at Gaydon, the new headquarters of JLR . Next slide.  
So overall outlook, how do we see it, I think on the demand side, we remain optimistic , despite some near -
term uncertaintie s that could be there. And infl ation we expect  it to be moderate. As far a s FY 24 is 
concerned, as I said earlier ’ it's a year of where  we have to deliver. We are squarely focused on putting 
our heads down and executing  this plan and ensuring we make it count  for the  full year . As far as  the 
momentum i s concerned, it will build through the year keeping in mind, there  is an element of seasonality, 
and JLR  is stabilizing i ts supply chain from where it has come . So we want to stabilize it. And of course 
there is a post -RDE impact in India, that’s  the only  reaso n we are calling this out as the momentum building 
through the year, so we don’t get  carried away . At the same time, the plans of JLR continuing  to, which 
Richard just talked  about. CV  - ensure the demand -pull strategy continues, double -digit EBITDA t o be 
delivered  and pro fitable growth in all the business verticals that Girish talked about , that's an importan t 
priority for us. And PV, EV  the plan is to  continue to remain aggressive . 
With this let me end the talk from our side and move it on to Q&A. And we already have a fair number of 
questions that have come through. Let me pick them up one by one, in the order  in which they actually 
appeared.  
 
Questions and Answers session  
PB Balaji  
So first  it's coming from Binay. Talking about EV fi nancials, and I think I covered, Binay, the  PV plus ICE 
revenues why they are more than PV business. TMETC, Trilix we  don't want to comment on the smaller 
subsidiaries  that are there -  they are  design center s, they  don't materially move the needle, they should 
be treated as part of the design cost that  we incur. And , PLI not considered, government grant s nothing 
as far as  EV business  is concerned , nothing  has been considered  that are  there.  And headwind s, tailwinds , 
let me give it on to Shailesh to talk about, because that’s also  coming  through in one other question as 
well.  
Shailesh Chandra  
Sure.  So as far  as, let me talk fi rst about the ICE segment. As far as tailwinds are concerned , I think what 
is re ally going to support growth are going to be the new launches , refreshe s that will been launched  by 
the various OEMs in this fi nancial year. We  are still seeing the demand in terms of bookings for the                                                                                                         Tata Motors Limited  
May 12 , 2023  
 
 
industry are remaining strong. So that’s  a good news th at demand has not dropped. Of course, there are 
certain segments , especially in the entry segment, which I mentioned, is under pressure and bit of  interest 
rates even no w also impacting the vehicle fi nancing interest rates and all. We’ll have some impact o r 
definitely again on the entry segment.  As far as EVs are concerned there is hardly any headwinds that I 
see, I only see the tailwinds . There are several launches, which are going to happen in this space, and that 
is going to expand in the market. There is a growing acceptance of EVs among the consumers , and that is 
continuing to help. We are seeing every quarter the industry is growing  big in size. In fact, if you really see 
the monthly rate of sales of EVs has grown  to 8,500 to 9,000 per month for the industry, which is very 
high , just one week back it  would  have been 4,000 or so. So I believe that EV industry will have all these 
tailwinds apart  from the various states which are also coming with very  progressive poli cies. PLI and all , I 
think the environment is very favorable  for EV’s . 
PB Balaji  
Thank you, Shailesh. Richard, fi rst question coming to you and then Adrian something coming  your way 
as well. Can you give us  push -pull factors for margins next year, this is coming  from Kapil.  You are currently 
at 6.5%, guidance is 6% plus . How does this workout? Some color would be helpful.  
Richard Molineux  
Yes, of course. S o we're expecting volumes next year to be circa 400,000, so a little bit higher  than our Q4 
run rate. On the positive side we' re also expecting supplier infl ation to start  to reduce. Some of it will 
become embedded in terms of their labor rates, some of it in terms of commodity rates and utility rates, 
starting to show signs of comin g-off the peaks . On the other side, we , at the moment we have foreign 
exchange rates  that are  slightly  less favorable than we had during the course of Q4. And we will need to 
start investing  in marketing to secure the order intake that we need towards the back end of the  year.  
Finally, I think the other negative is we do expect,  I saw some questions on that later on, we  do expect 
VME to increase, but we expect that to be a  creep rather than a leap . So we are not going to get into mass 
discounting of cars  for our cars , , we're a modern  luxury player. We do expect VME to creep up. So I'd say, 
FX, marketing and VME  a little bit ad verse. Volume and supplier infl ation is a little bit favorable.   
PB Balaji  
Thanks, Richard. Adrian, there is a series of questions co ming from Chandramouli of  Goldman.  
We have guided to a 6% EBIT margin and GBP 2 billion cash fl ow this year. Last year we started  in a similar  
way at  5% EBIT and GBP1 billion FC F. What is giving you the confi dence that this t ime around, things will 
be diff erent, one.  Second, order bank  - also saw another question somewhere else, order bank at 200 K, 
and if you  net out sales and arrive at -  the number seems to be much lower in terms of new  orders coming 
in, need  some color there. Second point.  Third, a very interesting question on, what's behind the thinking 
of the JLR rebranding? Is it just corporate action or there is something happening on the ground, which 
will -- which has trigger ed this stuff?  
                                                                                                         Tata Motors Limited  
May 12 , 2023  
 
 
Adrian Mardell  
Yes. Thanks, Balaji I'll take them in the or der that they ’ve been asked. Look for the last 12  months, we've 
been optimistic about breaking through on supply. And the truth is for the  first six months that we were 
too optimistic. Our b reakeven has been in place, it's been in place  for more than 12 mo nths, at the 300,000 
units. And simply put, we had to build more than  25,000 cars per month, of course. And we really didn't 
get to that point to Q3 and you  can see as soon as we have got to that point, which was a mixture of 
overall supply with semiconductors  and the MLA products, don't forget they're super crucial to our 
business model . They starting to come through in proportions we need from about November last year. 
So it’s  those two things, which really moved us from a loss -making to a quite  an aggressive  and significant 
profi t-making business. Breakeven still the same, we know the suppliers  hire with new semiconductors -- 
supply we secured from January. And we know our MLA production units, as Richard showed in the 
presentation, they’ve grow n to that 2,600  plus a week. So the two critical things we're waiting for 
happened in quarter three, continued  at pace in quarter four. And we believe will continue now into FY'24, 
we can see  it in the data  we've seen in the fi rst six weeks. So not only ha ve we broken through but  we can 
see the continuation of that, into the first half of this year and beyond. From an order  bank perspective, 
the 200,000 units, look it's still too high. I think that's the first point  we have to make here, right. We don't 
have an expectation and aspiration for200,000 units of orders, it’s two reasons. It's a symptom of supply 
being too low and production  being too low, and it's a symptom of the appeal for our vehicles that people 
have  been prepared to wait for as long as they actually have. But the reality is a healthier order  bank is a 
lower order bank than 200,000 units. So my anticipation is, it will continue to fall  by about 5,000 units per 
month over the first half of this year.  And to Richard's point,  if that continues to  happen and our supply 
increases as at that time we  expect  it to do so, and we will be stimulating further orders. But if you look 
at any of our  websites, particularly on the most sought -after vehicle the Range Rover, a lot of those order  
times are now 12 to 18 months. We a re not stimulating orders beyond 12 to 18 months at this  point.  To 
the proportional share point, which is in the question, 200,000 orders at the end of March , 76% of them 
were Range Rover, Range Rover Sport, and Defender. So it's still very skewed  towards our three most 
modern, most luxurious nameplates today. And in terms of  the brand question, the point there number 
three, now I'll reiterate what I actually said and  was quoted within the media.  Land Rover is the trust mark 
for three br ands. And when you think about  it the characteristics  of those individual brands, Range Rover, 
Defender, and Discovery, are  different. And if we truly -- they're underpinned by the trust mark. So the 
off -road capability , the versatility of the vehicle, th e safety within the vehicle, the technologies are in  all 
of the brands. But if we're really going to grow our business in modern luxury, we absolutely  have to focus 
on the distinct characterizations within those brands.  
Look we know Range Rover is about lu xury, quietness, serenity. We know Defender is about  utility, go 
anywhere. We know Discovery is about family size and the utility of being able  to, in the broadest sense 
use this as a family travel ler vehicle. We understand those things  we have for a long time, but we have to 
deepen the understanding and the characteristics  of vehicles because clients will be attracted to 
individually those brands, not  just to Land Rover going forward. That's already clear in most of our biggest 
markets China , USA, Middle E ast. So that's why we've actually elevated those sub -brands above the trust 
mark to Land Rover, and that's what we're going to keep working through and working  on going forward. 
Back to you , Balaji.                                                                                                          Tata Motors Limited  
May 12 , 2023  
 
 
PB Balaji  
Thank you. Thanks, Adrian. This is coming from Jemma, J.P. Morgan. I think this question is picked  up by 
someone else as well, saying that, can we  give color on the free cash fl ow guidance and the net debt 
reduction for next year? How much of it is due to working capital  and how much of it is due to underlying 
cash fl ows? One kind of a question . Second kind of a question within that, you  are increasing Capex  to 
GBP 3 billion but still guiding  for debt going down to GBP1 billion. Richard, can you reconcile the two for 
us? 
Richard Molyneux  
Yeah. Sure. S o we are going to increase our investment from GBP  2.35 billion this year to  GBP 3 billion 
next year. Even considering that increase of GBP  650 million of investment , we are anticipating and expect 
to generate beyond that GBP  2 billion worth of cash  to tak e our net debt position, down from GBP3   billion 
to GBP  1 billion.  In terms of the proportion of that cash generation, that is operational and working capital, 
what  I'd say, certainly for the first half of the year, the majority of it will be operational. Working  capital a 
little bit more in the second half of the year. But if you, you only need to look  at our cash flow  generation 
in the last six months, GBP1.3 billion, after about GBP1.3  billion worth of investment in the last six months.  
So we are a stron g cash -generating business, when we're functioning at the type of levels that  we're 
talking about. Adrian has mentioned several times our breakeven volume is around  300,000 units. I've 
mentioned that next year we should be operating at 400,000  units, that' s wh ere we get our EBIT  and cash 
returns  from . 
PB Balaji  
Thank you. Thanks, Richard. One question,  if Ben is there, do you intend to come to the bond  market and 
will you do some sort of senior secured debt? The second, the latter part I can answer, clear  answer no. 
First part, Ben, over to y ou. 
Ben 
Sure. So I think that at some point we will come back to the bond market, we've been a regular  issuer. But 
I think we'll just keep monitoring the market for the right time. I think part of it is our fi nancial 
performance is improving as we've talked about here today and potentially some benefi t in continuing to 
wait , we can pace we expect that to continue. But  on the other hand, there are plenty of uncertainties in 
terms of needing to go to the market . I don't think there is any need. As has been explained, we expect 
significant positive  cash flow  in the year and that is after significant  investment spending. So, we don’t  
need to fund investment spending. I think it would be more a matter of managing  our liabilities.  
PB Balaji  
Thank you. Thanks, Ben. Question to Richard, and then another one  - same thing to Shailesh and this is 
from Rakesh, BNP Paribas.  
JLRs investment of GBP15 billion, can you give us a rough idea of how much of that is going  into R&D  EV 
product development, how much going into ICE?                                                                                                          Tata Motors Limited  
May 12 , 2023  
 
 
 
Richard Molyneux  
Yes. So look, this year our total engineering went up by GBP  400 million to GBP1.69 billion. I would  expect 
that to continue to increase a little bit next year. However, the majority of th e increase over the next 
couple of years  is going to be in capital, as we industrialize all of  our 2024, '25, '26 car lines into Solihull 
which is where we will be producing Jaguar and where  we are producing the Range Rover BEV, adding to 
Halewood  which is where we will  be producing EMA. So in the short -term, it will be partly an increased 
engineering, in the  next 18 months  - two years , capital will be the primary part of the increase. In terms 
of EV and ICE, we are going to have to continue to inv est in ICE to meet the Euro 7 regulations that came 
through. However, obviously, the vast  balance of our efforts is in the EV space as the majority of the 
launches that we have post  now are EVs.  
PB Balaji  
Thank you. Question to Shailesh. In terms of with t he domestic PV market competition is obviously  picking 
up, especially with clear head -on competition to Nexon and Punch. Any ideas  of how you  are preparing 
to defend your volume and market share?  
Shailesh Chandra  
Yes. So see, we have seen in the past also and last year  also we have seen that in SUV  segments whenever 
there is a new model which gets launched typically the segment  expands. And this expands because it is 
channelizing  flow  from existing segments in to SUV segments. This has been at the cost of ha tches going 
down or sedans going down. So , I think that phenomenon is going to continue despite. And Nexon 
segment, you have already  seen that this segment has seen every year addition of new models and only 
the segment  has expanded. And we as a company have been seeing increasing volumes of  Nexon.  Similar 
thing in Punch , so this is one - volumes will get  channelized from other existing segments to this, so the 
segment is going to expand. From  our perspective we will kee p the excitement in these two products high, 
through several  interventions, New Forever interventions we keep on bringing. Recently we got the #Dark,  
Punch we came with  CAMO,  but also at the same time, let's take for example, punch, we are  going to 
bring  CNG variant here with the twin cylinder technology and this is going to be  unique in the market. We 
are al so planning to bring EVs, so we a re very confident  that these  two products will be able to sustain 
the volumes. Of further actions, how we will furth er grow from where we are, and both in terms of volume 
and market share, we are going  to add new nameplates and we have showcased that in Auto  expo, Curvv, 
Sierra, these  are new nameplates, which are going to get launched . There's going to be a steep  incre ase 
in the EV volumes. We are expanding our portfolio in the CNG segment, so I think we  have several levers , 
which are going to increase our volumes, as well as market share.  
PB Balaji  
Thanks, Shailesh. Next is from Gunjan. I think the JLR side of the ques tions have all been  answered. So let 
me move to the PV side, I think that's also coming from Ashish later  on as well. India PV, the volumes are 
at 540K and at this level capacity utilization  is extremely  high, 65% SUV share. From here on what is there                                                                                                         Tata Motors Limited  
May 12 , 2023  
 
 
for the margin improvement drivers ? And why do we , and why  are the margins still not as strong as others  
who are there  in the  market and your plans for the same?  
Shailesh Chandra  
So one thing I would like to say that, last year, if you see the EBIT has inc reased by 300bps. So it is an 
improving trend and significant ly improving trend, the whole benefit of operating  leverage has been fully 
realized. The margins at a contribution level has been increasing . Of course, alongside we are also seeing 
a steep growt h of EV business. There the  margin s I think, Balaji, very well explained that it is underlying 
margins are strong, but there  is a huge product  development expense which also gets charged -off. So it 
will have an  impact. But there are plans in terms of how w e are going to strengthen the margins for  EVs. 
And also, as you know, the battery prices had gone up significant ly by 35%, the cell prices had gone up.  
There was huge semiconductor open market purchase, which was  being done. All these are factors which 
we reclaim back. Battery prices are going down, semiconductor  open market buys  have come down. So 
these are all positive things which  are going to favorably infl uence the contribution for EVs. Also there is 
a deep localization  that we are doing, which is goin g to further bring down the cost.  So there are a lot of 
actions on the EV side, which is going to improve the margin , including , the  new models, which we are 
going to launch , is going to be in the SUV , higher SUV  segments, which will be better in margin. I'm not 
talking even about PLI and all, because  -- and we have a clear pathway to bring this to say, at a contribution 
level into a double -digit margin closer to where we are in PV. And on top of that, of course, w e are going  
to have the PLI benefit  and all. 
On the PV side, I think again, a richer mix is what we are expecting in the coming years, which  is going to 
strongly support. There is an institutionalized cost reduction plan with a  very aggressive plan that we  are 
taking a benchmark and tearing down at a component level . So all these actions, I'm sure that we are 
going to continue to improve on the margins . 
PB Balaji  
 Thanks. I think there's another question, which Ashish had asked under those guidance for  a 10 % margin 
in PV. Just to correct, that is the EBITDA margin we are referring to. That is what  we want to reach. And 
Shailesh has already explained his drivers for the same. Question  to both Shailesh and Girish, industry 
growth both in India -- by India for CV and  PV, given the demanding base is  there, how do you want to? 
Do you want to start with CV?  
Girsh Wagh  
Yeah. Okay. So I think while the industry has grown pretty well in FY23 over the previous year , I think we 
have to keep in mind that the industry volumes are still below the previous peak  of FY 19, that's point 
number one. Point number 2 is, I think generally in the pre -election year, that is the general election , year 
before general elections, mark et has always  grown, especially because of the government spending. And 
I think this year in the budget , we are looking at almost record spending on infrastructure by the 
government. I think  these are good tailwinds for the industry. And as a result, I thi nk the industry should 
grow  further during this year, although it may be in single -digits and growth may vary across  the year, as 
well as across various segments.  So, one would see highest growth happening probably in buses, because                                                                                                         Tata Motors Limited  
May 12 , 2023  
 
 
the buses still are  at a lower level followed by a good growth in the medium and heavy commercials. It 
appears  that the ILCVs may remain fl at compared with the last year and the small commercial  vehicles 
may grow a bit. In terms of timing, it appears that the first quarter may  degrow a bit Y -o-Y, because of 
some pr e- buy eff ect and also the transition into the  BS6 Phase II and the price increase, which has 
happened. But after that, one would see growth  in Q2, Q3, as well as Q4. So I think that's how we see how 
the markets will grow. Overall , it appears that we will see a single -digit growth at the industry volume 
level. Thanks.  
Shailesh Chandra  
So on the PV side, I would say that, we are very clear that the secular trend of growth of the  industry is 
going to remain intact, because  of the underlying drivers that drive penetration  levels. And also given that 
now the market is having a lot of upgrade customers . So people are  wanting to upgrade the vehicles and 
that is the phenomenon that we have  been seeing when it comes to SUV growth . And therefore going 
forward, while there  was a very steep growth of 27% in the last financial  year, also, thanks to the pent -up 
demand  and low inventory levels that we had at the start of FY23, I think that  helped in driving this kind 
of growth, which was 27%. Otherwise, which could have been  much lower, I would say. So, therefore, this 
year would be , growth would be slightly moderate  in the zone of 5% to 7 %. But I'm sure that beyond this 
financial  year, the growth  will come back to double -digit number, is what I'd say.  
PB Balaji  
Thank you, Shailesh. Question from Kapil o n EV margins is already covered. I think there is a question of 
PLI that is there in various places , where do we stand on PLI? Shailesh, could you pick that?  
Shailesh Chand ra 
Yes. So, as far as PLI is concerned, there have been a lot of engagement with the Ministry of  heavy 
industries on this topic and discussions have revolved around the domestic value additions . And MHI has 
been very receptive of the inputs from our side. There have been  several inputs that have been given. And 
of course, the requirement from the MHI to establish the extent of DV A that any OEM has attained was a  
bit stringent which has been brought to a level which is now practical. And we are going to  be working on 
that. And hopefully, the first model is what we are going to submit with the  DVA  status  very soon. From 
there on, we'll probably secure the PLI eligibility for all our models . Mos t, all the models that we are selling 
today as per our estimate s, cross DVA  requirement and going forward, we are very confident  of availing 
the PLI benefi t.  
PB Balaji  
Thanks, Shailesh. Two questions from Kapil saying, I think, Girish, coming your way, April volumes  much 
weaker than industry for Tata Motors, what's h appening and when we expect  growth to return? And 
trucking conditions , how is that trending and how are dealer  inventories?  
 
                                                                                                         Tata Motors Limited  
May 12 , 2023  
 
 
Girish Wagh  
Right. So, Kapil, first of all on the volumes, I think first point is, because it is aligned to the retail . I think 
the retail volumes in April hav e dropped after the pre -buy eff ect in the month of  March. So as we said 
that we will align our production and offtake  to retail, I think that is the first  thing. Second, of course, as I 
mentioned earlier, when we have transit ioned to BS6  Phase II, I think there is a significant  change, which 
has been done in the entire product portfolio . Every product in the portfolio, one has seen significant  
improvement  in terms of power to weight ratio, total cost of ownership, comfort and convenience, safety  
and as a result, there were some supply chain issues also in month of April, which will  get addressed from 
this month of May. Finally, as I already answered, I think Q1, we see that  there would be a de -growth in 
retail registration volu mes because of the pre -buy effect , but the growth will come back from Q2 . As far 
as trucking sentiment Index is concerned , for the tippers, it has gone up, which was expected. I think for 
other segment, which  is trucks, I LCVs, small commercial vehicles, th ey have dipped marginally. And that 
was also  expected after a strong Q4. But as I said, I think, equation between headwinds and tailwind s, I 
think the tailwind s should prevail after some time and therefore, one would still see  growth happening 
from Q2.  In terms of dealer inventories, I mean, very happy that the inventories continue to be healthy , 
especially after very good retail that happened in Q4. And we will continue at this level  and because we 
are matching retail , off take , production in that sequence , I think this will  remain at good level.  
Balaji, I will take the next question also.  
PB Balaji  
Yeah, let me quickly cover that for people who are not seeing the question that you’re taking . This is on 
the entire EV buses, GCC model. Are EV buses viable without FAME  subsidy , just a basic question. And will 
you participate in future MSRTC orders, given that you  are not participated in the recent CESL tender?  
Girish Wagh  
Okay. So, let me take the first one. See, as far as the electric buses, bulk of those are being  consumed 
today by the government and most of those are now also being consumed  in the own operate maintain 
model, which is an Opex  model and not a Capex  model, right? So, even if the FAME subsidies are not 
there, finally , it will lead to some increase  in the Opex  that is the charge per kilometer and that will be 
part of the bi ds that all  the OEMs will give. And that will  then get translated into the ticketing or the ticket 
rates , which will be there. So I don't think this should have an impact especially on the gross  cost contract 
model. As far as private customers retail models are concerned, and the  retail customers are concerned, 
there is an increasing interest , and because many of the  corporates would also like to start moving 
towards their net -zero goal for greenhouse gas  emissions, and therefore, they would like to move or move 
towards electric buses for their  employee transportation, so this should also cont inue.  
And lastly, I think the 5,000 MSRTC order or any other order , I think let me once again clarify  it. We did 
stay away from the second tender of C ESL because we had requested for  a payment security mechanism 
to the government and the government agencie s, which didn’t  get implemented in tender two and 
therefore we stayed away. A third tender was also  released by C ESL, in which there was only one player 
who bid, other - all other players did n’t bid, because this payment security mechanism wasn't there. An d                                                                                                         Tata Motors Limited  
May 12 , 2023  
 
 
therefore that tender  will be re -bid. And we will continue to engage with the government to craft the 
payment  security mechanism, which will make the whole model  bankable. Once that is done , I think we 
will be very much into this game. Balaji?  
PB Balaji  
Thank you. Thank, Girish. Jinesh you've asked a series of questions, a lot of details. My suggestion, we will 
take it offl ine with you, so these nu mbers we can supply to you offline. So  kindly pardon me, it's going to 
take a long time to go through all you r questions here.  
Moving onto Joseph, IIFL. Th is is an order flow  conversation, which I think has already been  covered and 
therefore similarly the working capital piece has also been covered. The  additional new questions coming 
up is activation of Sanand p lant, will it bring in negative  operating leverage, and how do you intend to deal 
with it?  
It's fair to say some cost is coming in without the revenue, but it's part of the long -term capacity  planning. 
Therefore it is part of the overall mix that we p lay w ith. So, our guidance for  getting to that double -digit 
EBITDA includes these stuff , but that's how volume is going  to come. So I'm not concerned about that.  
Coming on to Ashish, I think this is  on battery, with this new area let's talk about that. There ar e comments 
in the media on the battery plants in India  and EU , and you can give some color on this ? 
All we can say at this point in time is conversations are underway, with both in India as well as  in Europe. 
And we intend to come to a conclusion sooner rather than later. And when we  do that, we will take you 
through it in greater detail, so you can understand everything  related to that. Volume guidance, we don't 
give, I think everything we  have to say, we already said so further guidance is we don't intend to give. 
Initial talking  about India  FCF generation . Fair point, we  have talked about JLR. India will also be  positive 
in free cash flow s and it will be integral to one more contributor to the net debt  reduction that we have 
in mind, despite the Rs. 8,000 crore spend that we have on the  Capex . 
Second, this is for Adrian coming your way from Stephanie,  under  house of brands, Jaguar intents  to 
launch of premium GT, given the recent price cuts that have come  from competition, are you concerned 
about it?  
Adrian Mardell  
There is work to do for sure. But we have really cleared  the positioning of this brand going forward . We 
announced that the pricing  of this will be more than 100,000 units, position as a  very low breakeven point, 
so work to do not concerned at this point now.  
PB Balaji  
Thank you. Th e second one related diff erent question is does JLR intend to reinstate the dividend if cash 
flow  exceed the expectations in FY 24? 
The dividend policy has been approved by the Board for JLR and the Board at an appropriate  time will take 
a look at it and it will be as per  the dividend policy.                                                                                                          Tata Motors Limited  
May 12 , 2023  
 
 
Next question from Chirag. Volumes , Q1 as base volume and it keep rising, will it lead to some  adverse 
mix? And commodity benefit s, are they likely to flow in ?  Richard, you want to take that? Then I'll come 
to CV here?  
Richard Molyneux  
Yeah. Sure. So on the 94,000 that we sold in Q4, I think I said, we expect the first half of the  year to be 
sort of around that type of level . Will it lead  to some adverse mix? No, it won’t . We mentioned we have 
an order bank of 200,000, 76% of those are Range Rover , Range Rover Sport, and Defender and those ar e 
the orders that will be fulfilling during  that period, largely.  
In terms of commodit y benefit s, yes, we do expect, as I mentioned before hand , some of the inflationary  
pressures at the suppliers start to come down. Commodity rates being part  of that , utilities as  well. 
Whereas some of the infl ationary impact on our suppliers, particularly  in terms of their labor costs are 
going to be embedded and will probably continue  to grow. So there are some upsides and some 
downsides in terms of our supply cost , but we expect the rate that I showe d you in terms of outbound 
inflation exceeding inbound i nflation to continue.  
PB Balaji  
Thanks, Richard. A question Girish your way and also there is a question below that has  the same thing, 
discount pull back in Q4. Was it driven by pre -buy or is it a new normal? And  can you give a rough sense 
of how mu ch dis count have you pulled -off? 
Girish Wagh  
So, I think, the quantifi cation of discount pullback, Balaji has already shown in his presentation , there was 
a clear reconciliation in the slide. Now coming to this discount pullback , I would rather like to say that it 
is about customer value perception. So what we have  been focusing on two, three things, one is 
continuously increasing the customer value . And second is taking a lot of efforts in communicating that 
value and ensuring that the  customer experiences that values, so it would be a mix of communication 
whether it is  ETL, infl uencer advocacy or in market trials. A lot of work has been done and we have been  
consistently increasing that customer value , basis which we are able to increase the market  operating 
prices. So it is, I would say a function of customer perceived value and that to how does the customer  
comp are it with the competitive off ers that he or she has. So I think our focus has  been to continuously 
improve that. And I can say that, when we transitio ned to BS6  Phase II, we have been able to do a step 
change because that opportunity was available during  product development. Balaji?  
PB Balaji  
Thank you. Thanks, Girish.  
There is a question on PV outlook, seems to have changed significant ly in the quarter, I think  Shailesh  has 
already covered as to how we see the industry scenario going  forwar d, so we stick to that. Clarifi cation on 
whether Tata Motors will incur  battery  Capex ?                                                                                                         Tata Motors Limited  
May 12 , 2023  
 
 
No, that will be done by Tata Sons Company . The company has already been set up under the  name of 
Agratas Energy Storage Solutions  Private Limited. So that has already been created. So it will come  through 
that company.  
So I think with  this we have come to the end of the session. I really like to thank you for  taking the time 
and the probing questions that you have been asking us. Do feel free to  reach out to our team i n case you 
need further clarifications and specifi c details that  you require. Thank you, and look forward to speaking 
to you in the next quarter. Bye -bye.  Thank you.  
 