Fair to say it  has been an extremely satisfying quarter. And the reason I say, use  that word is that, nice to 
 see all the auto verticals coming together once again and this time  with a lot of intensity as well. So both 
 the alignment of the vectors are there and the magnitude  of vectors are also increasing, which is what has 
 translated into a strong set of numbers  for the quarters, resulting on multiple highs  and I will quickly  cover 
 that in the coming slides . We en ded the year on a pretty strong note with revenue of  around  Rs. 1 lakh 
 crores  with an EBITDA of 13.3% , and the profit before tax and exceptional item of Rs. 5,000  crores.  
 On a full -year basis, we hit our highest ever revenue at  around  Rs. 3.5 lakh crores and ended the year  with 
 a positive free cash flow  of Rs. 7,800 crores, despite a very weak start in Q1 and  Q2, which you see in the 
 numbers . The business has been sequentially improving its performance  and doing it in significant 
 stretches. So, very happy with the way we have ended . Next slide please.  
 Source of growt h, in the quarter we grew by about 35% , of which  volume  and mix contributed 24% of the 
 35% and the price came in at 10.5%, so price is still  a very strong variable in our growth agenda. 
 Profitability 3.2% went to 6.8% and all businesses  contributing to it and JLR coming at a very large swing 
 there, contributing to the  2.8% out of that delta there. Again debt continues to reduce at Rs. 43,700 crores 
 and TML India at Rs. 6,200 crores, JLR GBP  3 billion i.e. Rs. 30,000 crores we talk about. So  the FY 24 net 
 debt reduction plan, we are confirming, we will not be in a position to  meet the FY 24 numbers, but very 
 clearly  - FY25 we want this issue sorted out.  Next slide.  
 A series of headlines, normally we don't do that, but it's fair to just pull back  and reflect  on what this 
 quarter and the year actually means for the Group . For us , each one of us in this call, we feel strongly 
 about this, the highest -ever revenue in a  quarter, the highest -ever EBITDA in a quarter, one of the 
 strongest PBTs that we  delivered and all three auto vertical simultaneously profitable, strong net debt 
 reduction.  That's all the quarter numbers. And if you factor in  that the first half was a very weak first half,  
 we still delivered the highest -ever revenue. We have the highest EBITDA since  2015, very  strong PBT 
 despite the weak start , after factoring the weak start. And India net debt  lowest in the last 15 years, so 
 it's worthwhile just to  mull over  it to say, I would say, that the  potential of this business is slowly starting 
 to come out and that's what we would want to  build on when we go into FY 24. This is basically giving us 
 the impetus to how we want to  play at FY 24. Next slide.  
 This is also something which we are happy about, a dividend of Rs. 2 per share for  the ordinary 
 shareholder s and Rs. 2.1 for the DVR shareholders, coming in after sometime. And this will obviously have 
 to be a - the Board has recommended this and this will have to be approved  in the ensuing shareholders 
 meeting. And this will result in a cash flow of  Rs. 771 crores as part of the plan i.e. this  is factored into the 
 debt reduction plan in any case.  So again, very happy to see this.
